About the job
Position Title: Software Developer 2 (Full Time)
Division: Digital and Innovation
Reports To:  Manager, Web and Mobile Delivery
Salary: $75,512.00 - $83,744.00
Location: Toronto, Yonge & Eglinton


TVO is at a unique intersection of education, journalism, digital technology, broadcast, and philanthropy. As creators of award-winning content, we’ve been inspiring learning that changes lives and enriches communities since 1970. Our vision is to be a globally recognized digital learning organization.


 What’s in it for you

When it comes to learning, we walk the talk: it’s the cornerstone of everything we do, and each one of us invests deeply in our own learning while elevating each other’s knowledge – whether through peer-to-peer learning, workshops or lunch & learns. You’ll work with folks who are thrilled and driven by the digital learning and media landscapes. Roll up your sleeves and work cross-functionally with great teams where collaboration is the beating heart of all that we do. We’re a tight-knit community and we’re just the right size, meaning that you’ll get to meet and work with people from across our organization, at all levels – the ones who have been here for 10 months, 10 years, and well beyond. Maybe you’ll even get to meet Polkaroo.


 Who we are

TVO is poised for its next chapter as we embark on the next phase of strategic planning. We know we are a better organization when we honour our commitments, when we thrive with diverse voices, when we value bold thinking, and embrace change. We understand and celebrate that we are better, together.
We are proud and thrilled to be named a Greater Toronto Top Employer of 2023! This is a testament to the incredible work we do, every day, and the impact that we have on the lives of Ontarians.
However you jump in with us, you’ll join a team of good people who are constantly inspired and challenged to do great work. Join us on our journey as we go from great to greater.
TVO is funded primarily by the Province of Ontario, and is a registered charity supported by thousands of sponsors and donors. Find and follow us on: YouTube (@TVO), Twitter (@TVO), Facebook (@TVO), and Instagram (@WeAreTVO).


 The opportunity

As part of the Web Solutions team, the Software Developer 2 will have full stack development skills, capable of writing code for frontend as well as backend systems and leveraging modern technology including the latest in generative AI and machine learning technologies aligned with our existing and future needs. They will primarily be responsible for the design, implementation, maintenance, and support of software applications and/or backend services. They will also have experience in cloud-based software development, integration and architecture.


How you will make an impact

Creates detailed application specifications, develops software, or configures 3rd party off-the shelf software
Monitors application performance, evaluates, implements, and provides customer support for software applications
Documents and outlines business processes, application workflows, system components, high-level architecture, and integration points as necessary
Applies software development methodologies, frameworks - Agile (Scrum or Kanban) or Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as applicable
Adheres to coding and development standards and best practices
Researches, evaluates, and proposes technologies and solutions within established business and technical requirements
Participates in the departmental processes for project delivery
Mentors junior developers on the team
Adopts and stays abreast of new and emerging technologies


What you will bring to TVO

3+ years of hands-on professional experience developing large scale, complex web-based applications using both frontend and backend technologies
Knowledge and experience with the following technologies:
JavaScript frameworks such as ReactJS, Vue or Angular
Backend development using NodeJS
HTML and CSS
Web services and APIs (REST, JSON:API, GraphQL)
Databases such as MySQL, MariaDB, Postgres, MongoDB
GIT version control
Experience with design systems, e.g., Bootstrap, Material UI.
Experience developing in Cloud environments (e.g., AWS or Azure)
Understanding of Web Accessibility (WCAG, ARIA)
Nice to have:
Less/Sass Preprocessors
NPM, Webpack, Grunt, Gulp, and Yeoman or other build and bundling tools
Familiarity with running, building and tweaking Docker containers
Familiarity with headless, decoupled and SaaS application architectures.
Familiarity with testing frameworks such as Jest, Cypress, Maven, Selenium, etc.
Excellent analytical skills, strong problem-solving skills, good communication skills, attention to detail and being a team player
Ability to work collaboratively in a cross-functional setting comprising of various key stakeholders
Bachelor's degree or equivalent OR relevant knowledge and experience


We invite you to submit your application by April 17, 2024 at 5:00pm. Not sure you have everything we’re asking for, but know you can make a big impact? Tell us your story and we will be happy to consider you.



To learn more about us and our culture, please visit us at https://www.tvo.org/about/work-at-tvo.


TVO is an equal opportunity employer and is committed to an inclusive, equitable, and accessible workplace where all employees feel valued, respected, and supported. We believe that the diversity of our team strengthens our ability to develop creative solutions and products that are reflective of the communities in which we serve across Ontario. At TVO, we recognize the importance of using anti-oppression practices, both within our organization and in our content.


Accommodations are available on request for candidates taking part in all aspects of the recruitment and selection process (e.g., including alternate formats of materials, accessible meeting rooms). If you are seeking accommodations during the application or interview process, please advise us as soon as possible so that appropriate arrangements can be made by sending your request to accommodations@tvo.org.